does not wisdom crying out an
understanding lift up her voice she
takes her stand on the top of the high
hill beside the way where the paths meet
she cries out by the gates at the entry
of the city at the entrance of the doors
to you o men I call and my voice is to
the sons of men o you simple ones
understand prudence and you fools be of
an understanding heart listen for I will
speak of excellent things and from the
opening of my lips will come right
things for my mouth will speak truth
wickedness is an abomination to my lips
all the words of my mouth are with
righteousness nothing crooked or
perverse is in them they are all plain
to him who understands and right to
those who find knowledge receive lie
instruction and not silver and knowledge
rather than choice gold for wisdom is
better than rubies and all the things
one may desire cannot be compared with
her eye wisdom dwell with prudence and
find out knowledge and discretion the
fear of the Lord is to hate evil pride
and arrogance and the evil way and the
perverse mouth I hate
council is mine and sound wisdom I am
understanding I have strength by me
Kings reign and rulers decree justice by
me princes rule and nobles all the
judges of the earth I love those who
love me and those who seek me diligently
will find me riches and honour are with
me
enduring riches and righteousness my
fruit is better than gold yes than fine
gold and my revenue then choice silver I
Traverse the way of righteousness in the
midst of the paths of justice that I may
cause those who love me to inherit
wealth that I may fill their Treasuries
the Lord possessed me at the beginning
of his way before his works of old I
have been established from everlasting
from the beginning before there was ever
an earth when there were no depths I was
brought forth when there were no
fountains abounding with water before
the mountains were settled before the
hills I was brought forth while as yet
he had not made the earth or the fields
or the primal dust of the world when he
prepared the heavens I was there when he
drew a circle on the face of the deep
when he established the clouds above
when he strengthened the Fountains of
the deep when he assigned to the sea its
limit so that the waters would not
transgress his command when he marked
out the foundations of the earth then I
was beside him as a master craftsman and
I was daily his delight rejoicing always
before him rejoicing in his inhabited
world and my delight was with the sons
of men now therefore listen to me my
children for blessed are those who keep
my ways hear instruction and be wise and
do not disdain it blessed is the man who
listens to me watching daily at my gates
waiting at the posts of my doors for
whoever finds me finds life and obtains
favor from the Lord but he who sins
against me wrongs his own soul all those
who hate me love death
[Music]